# Reflection

In this assignment you've learned very basic HTML and CSS, the content and presentation layers of the web. Take this opportunity to think about how they might relate to your work as a historian. 

## Question 1 (150 words)
#### In Part 2, we explored the use of semantic elements such as `<header>`, `<article>`, and `<section>`. These elements make it easier for machines and non-visual browsers to navigate web pages. Why might this be important? (You might want to Google around a bit before answering!)

In HTML, semantic elements denote the nature of elements in the code, like whether they are header (<header>) or footer (<footer>) content, or whether text is bolded (<strong>) or italicized (<i>). While CSS styles website content to make it more appealing to the human eye, semantic elements make content clear and understandable to computerized and non-visual readers. 

Digital historians seek to make data accessible to the most readers possible. Semantic elements aid this process in several ways. First, they make content more easily searchable on search engines, ensuring your webpage won't get buried under millions of other search results. Second, they make content accessible across operating systems, web servers, and languages, further broadening your webpage's reach. Finally, they give those who are unable to process visual content, such as those with text-to-speech machines or those with slower bandwidth who can't load CSS, access to content in a clear and navigable manner. This last point is especially important because as digital historians, we must be aware of how barriers to information, such as disability or low income, operate, and attempt to use technology to dismantle those barriers.

## Question 2 (150 words)
#### In your CSS work, you learned how to change the presentation of material on the web without changing the content. Using a pen and paper, a drawing program, or (if you're feeling ambitious) real HTML and CSS, mock up 2 very different presentations of the information you displayed in your post. Put images of them on the Internet somewhere (but not in this repository) and link to them here. Write a brief paragraph discussing the effect of the presentaiton layer on the reader.

<p><a href="https://imgur.com/IX1K5Ou" title="Prototype 1" target="_blank">Prototype 1</a>
<a href="https://imgur.com/wcf35eX" title="Prototype 2" target="_blank">Prototype 2</a></p>
Presentation affects a reader in many ways. It affects the trajectory of the reader's gaze. In prototype 1, all information is in the centre of the page, going straight down: efficient, if somewhat boring. In prototype 2, the reader looks first, unexpectedly, at the title and subheading in the header on the right, before moving to the text on the left, the middle for the picture, then back to the right for the sources; this engages the reader and communicates an avant-garde style, but also may annoy the reader as unorthodox, difficult to navigate or inefficient use of space. Presentation also affects reader interpretation of each element. In prototype 1, the title stands alone in the header, commanding attention, while the subheading becomes associated with the main text; in prototype 2, with title and subheading both in the header, the reader is likely to interpret these as grouped. Finally, the order in which elements are presented affects how readers interpret the overall content. For the purposes of my post: in prototype 1, which shows a picture with text below, readers are more likely to conceptualize John F. Kennedy visually before they conceptualize him textually; in prototype 2, where the picture is below the text, the reverse is true.